Biography: Alexander Macdougall

On a mild Pacific-Northwest winter day, the cabinet shop I worked at was abuzz with the sounds of industry. The hissing of hydraulics, the piercing whine of wood driving through a table saw, and the gentle rumble of a forklift all irradiated across the dusty air – a flurry of sounds and smells I had become intimately accustomed to after five years with few vacations. I did well at my job, rising up from lowly labourer to team leader, but there was always something missing. I’d taken up work in cabinetry to pay the bills, but it lacked a certain sense of personal meaning. Music was my real passion, so working primarily fueled the necessities of life alongside the costs of being a struggling, up-and-coming musician. Working at becoming a successful musician was amazingly rewarding but wasn't an easy path, and eventually the band fell apart. Soon after, I decided to return to school and pursue another passion of mine: history. I first studied at Langara College where I achieved my Associates of Arts in History, with honours. Following this, I enrolled at Capilano University to complete my bachelor’s degree in interdisciplinary studies. My writing has been consistently praised by professors across disciplines, and several of my writings have been published in student journals. I have always loved reading and similarly enjoyed creative writing. During my time in school, I’ve worked at an after-school tutoring centre as an English tutor. This has been by far the most rewarding job I have ever had and has provided invaluable experience insofar as working with children. I plan on completing my bachelor’s degree this spring before moving on to either UBC or SFU’s professional development programs to become a teacher.  

My journey toward becoming a teacher was at first inspired by my pursuit of better working conditions and more meaningful employment. During this pursuit, I have come to believe that small acts of kindness are critical to society. It would be nice to change the world in drastically positive ways, but I believe that I can achieve the greatest impact by positively affecting the lives of those immediately around me. In a sense, I think that there is a cosmic significance to even the smallest acts of kindness. My experience as a tutor has been especially formative toward this opinion, and I look forward to a future where I can continue this practice with ever greater care, confidence, and creativity. 

Found within this portfolio are several essays and one fairy tale. I hope that you enjoy some of the words and ideas found here. 

Press ESC to return or click on 'Type command + ENTER' and type 'back'
